#### I'm Argentine 🇦🇷 naturalized Brazilian 🇧🇷, I live in Portugal 🇵🇹 with more than two and a half decades developing software professionally.

## About me:

### Hello (a.k.a. a quick Introduction):

I'm pretty simple and direct. Today, I focus my career on Java technologies, mainly for the back end and preferably with Spring and, of course, related infrastructure technologies. Any professional path other than this is outside my professional scope and is not of immediate interest. I've worked extensively with front-end technologies and various JavaScript frameworks/libraries. Still, it has been a long time since I delved into them, and lately, I've only kept in touch for small corrective and adaptive maintenance. I'm studying microservices, cloud, Kafka, etc., but I haven't had as much time as I'd like between day-to-day work and study priorities focused on my work tasks. In short, I don't have any practical experience (or that is valid as a professional one) with Cloud and Kubernetes technologies. I worked a lot with relational databases and very little with NoSQL. I usually work with Docker, but I don't consider myself an expert on the subject, although I can get by very well with it. 

### What about Java?

From my almost 27 years of professional career, more than nine have been dedicated to Java. Yes... I have worked with a ton of programming languages and other technologies, but that is out of scope at the moment; visit my LinkedIn page to find out more about it. I've worked with the old Java 2, up to 5 and 6, and today, I work with versions 7, 8, and 11 professionally. I started messing around with version 21 on personal projects and studies at home. I love multi-threading, lambda functions, and the Java language debureaucratization, such as var declarations and records. As of Java EE, I have already worked with Servlets, JSP, and related themes (JSTL, Filters, etc.); today, the web part is limited to Spring framework components. Regarding database access, I worked directly with JDBC and the main JPA implementation, Hibernate. I also encountered JOOQ and MyBatis on a few projects, but nothing too deep. Regarding messaging in Java, I worked with JMS to integrate systems through asynchronous messages, but also worked a little bit with IBM MQ and Kafka.

### What about the front end?

Although out of my current scope, I have worked a lot with the front end in the past. Within Java technology, I worked with the "good" old JSP (JavaServer Pages), JSTL (JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library), and JSF (JavaServer Faces). As far as Javascript is concerned, in addition to jQuery, I worked with Angular long ago (with a currently outdated version). I spent a few years with Ember.js (more than I would like for a framework that isn't widely adopted by the community) and a year with React (which appealed to me more). Anyway... The front end is not my strong point, but I love Javascript. Have to start digging into Typescript, though.

### What about full-stack?

Allow me to be dramatic... I don't believe in full-stack. That's it! I said it! But don't get me wrong, I do believe that people can work with both front and back end, but very few people are genuinely FULL stack (and I mean, FEW). Most of the time, people are strong on the back end and have little fear of working with the front end, or people are strong on the front end with little fear of the back end. This gap becomes even more evident when back-end and front-end technologies differ. Add CSS, Node.js, and related front-end frameworks, and boom! You see a ton of alleged "full stack developers" creating so much macaroni code, trying to get coding standards from one layer to another instead of focusing on each layer separately. Truthfully, I also found good JavaScript professionals struggling so much with CSS, which is all part of the front end, that now we have another professional layer, front-end designers, specialized in preventing developers from messing up with usability, CSS, and related stuff! Making a rough comparison is like looking for a neurosurgeon who is an expert in cardiovascular surgeries and vice versa. They exist? Possibly, but very... Very... Veeeeery few.

### What about software development processes and methodologies?

I love Agile! I started working in 1998 using essential analytics with the old simple waterfall or spiral models. It was a must! So, after some while, I started using the great and powerful RUP (Rational Unified Process) and the beautiful UML. It was only in 2010 that I heard about Scrum and Agile, and suddenly, they were the only things allowed in software development (thank God!). However, I gotta be honest, in 15 years since I met Agile, there have been very few projects using it as it should. You know, agile is not a thing that a team decides to do; it's a set of principles that must be adopted by the whole company, top-bottom. How many times I was forced to give an estimation... In weeks! Or break an unbreakable story in two "just to fit the sprint." Anyway, Test-Driven Development, Behavior-Driven development, pair programming, fast feedback, total transparency... They are stuff that work in real life, you just have to make that leap of faith... If you dare!

### Hey dude! 27 years in the market? Haven't you been promoted yet? (a.k.a. Technical Leadership)

Oh gosh, leadership! I have taken this toll many times in many projects and many companies. Technical leadership roles are not outside my scope, but I believe that this type of responsibility comes with time, working within a team, and not by falling from the sky as a technical leader on a project I've never worked with and with people I don't know, and they don't know me. Also, I like to code and design solutions and architectures and not spend endless time in meetings that, let's be honest, most of them could have been a simple email. C'mon! 
But I don't deny the absolute need for a leadership role; just let's stop lying and calling it "technical" leadership, okay? We need leaders who are not oblivious to the technology the team is working with and have very good soft skills. But please, when trying to "promote" someone to be a technical leader, tell this person the truth: You will not be coding again, perhaps some lines of code, but not real coding.

That's it! For more about my professional life, check out my LinkedIn page!

Cheers!
